Customer Reviews poses a great significance for e-commerce sellers and technology owners. In case of the physical good, the manual feedback or survey is required to measure a product’s success in the market. But for the online goods or products, it is no longer a requirements as the consumer themselves can provide their opinion and feedback on purchased goods in online platform. These vast amount of reviews can be very much important for the e-commerce seller if they want to improve the product’s quality, retain the brand impression, customer retention, analyze the revenue earned from products. These reviews can also drive the seller to put immediate attention in emergency cases by looking at what complaints are claiming by consumers. However, analyzing the vast number of these reviews can be very challenging. Apart from that, reviews may contain the variety of emotions, sentiments and complaints. So, manual analysis can be very cumbersome and inefficient as it may take a huge time to manually analyze each reviews and assign them to particular label. Besides, datasets used in existing study poses limitation due to the size or volume of the labeled data. Most of the dataset comprises of 10k-20k labeled data which may cause the concern of generalizing ability. The review can be diverse, there can be numerous diversity based on product category, user’s location, seller type, user’s age etc. Another key limitation of the existing works is that most of the study focused on the sentiment classification or aspect analysis considering the problem as multi-class classification problem, whereas in most of the scenarios specially in long reviews, user usually complain about several issues at a time. Therefore, a review may contain several types of sentiment at a time requiring multi-label complaint dataset. 

For the google playstore application and any app based label review dataset is not yet present. The app’s feature based aspect classification thus require a great attention to consider for developers and business group to focus on the app’s success and it’s effectiveness, user impact etc. 

In this study, we propose a zero shot learning based aspect analysis of samsung internet browser’s user reviews. We initially scrapped 2k selective reviews those got rating less than 3 to consider that these reviews are negative reviews and customer are not satisfied with something about the sbrowser. These reviews are analyzed through a zero-shot-learning based pipeline into multiple aspects such as Performance, User Interface, Privacy/Security, Stability/Crashes, Ad Blocking, Extension Support, Compatibility, Download Manager, Sync/Bookmarks, Search Engine, Battery Usage, Voice/Text Input, Dark Mode etc. These aspects are basically classified as multilabel because a review can consist of the complaints about several things, hence we considered all these classes or category to be classified as multilabel. To select the best zsl model we at first  compared the best zsl model using few labled dataset. This step is done to see which zsl model is performing better in classification based on the existing labeled dataset. So, we compared the labeled assign by the zsl model on those labeled dataset in unsupervised manner and then compared the actual label with the zsl assign label to measure accuracy or efficiency of the model. We found ‘Facebook bart-large-mnli (m1)’ model to perform really good and therefore analyzed the sbrowser comments through them. We tested a total of 5 state-of-the-art (Sota) LLM model to find the effectiveness in e-commerce text classification and then selected that model for the for the samsung internet browser comments analysis. The deployed models are Llama, GPT-4o, GPT-4o mini, Claude 3.5 Sonnet, and Clause 3.5 Haiku.

This analysis will help the samsung to focus on the user feedback, like what they want and what they are complaining about, what features should be included in near future and what steps should be taken immediately that is causing user to restrain them to use sbrowser. It will also help them to compete well with the existing internet browser in the market. It will increase the samsung’s overall brand value, google play store app ranking, user retention, increase advertising revenue and reduce support cause as well. This type of automation in review classification will also help the samsung to focus on immediate action needed. Samsung can employ this type of technique not only on internet browser, it can deploy the equivalent system for its other products as well in online platforms. 



In this work our contribution is as follows:

1) We proposed a generalized zero-shot-learning based complaints classification pipeline that can be utilized or adapted in different settings as well with different datasets
2) We compared the performance of various LLM models in existing labeled dataset of aspect based sentiment analysis for a greater of view of their performance on e-commerce text
3) This is the first study to analyze and extracts google playstore based user feedback classification on application product.
4) Analyze the practical chanllenges and limitations of LLM-based aspect analysis in real-world e-commerce settings.


LLM Based Customer Complaint Analysis

The study [1] explored a zero-shot-learning based e-commerce product categorization or classification using LLMs. The author employed a total of 5 LLMs models including GPT-4o, GPT-4o mini, Claude 3.5 Sonnet and Claude 3.5 Haiku. The dataset they utilized consists of 248 product category and each product contains a total of 20 samples. They divided the whole dataset into 8 subsets and evaluate the LLMs model independently on these 8 subsets. The performance of all the LLM models were nearly equal for some subsets, f1-score ranging from 73-77%. But among all LLM models, the gpt_4o and claude_3.5 sonnet found to perform the highest with an F1-score of 0.84% and 0.86% respectively. One key limitation of this work is that they didn’t compare the performance of these LLM models with existing product classification dataset apart from the one they utilized in this study. 


Another study [2] addresses the issue of customer complaint in financial domain and they utilized a publicly available kaggle[3] dataset that contains complaint about credit reporting, debt collection, credit cards etc. They addressed the problem in multiclass classification perspective. However, they utilized various LLM models including  GPT4o, GPT4o-mini, deepseek, claude-3.5-sonnet, claude-3.5-haiku, gemini-2.0-flash, gemini-1.5-pro etc to evaluate the performance of the classification. They found that GPT4.5 model excelled other in the classification with an F1-score of 77%. They did descent prompt engineering to find the suitable prompt that achieves higher accuracy. One key limitation of this study is that the utilized dataset contains multiclass, when it comes to a text thay may contain multiple complaints then how does it can effect the performance of the LLMs was not explored  and remained under explored in their research. 


A study [13] analyze the performance of GPT-3.5 in sentiment analysis task. They evaluated the performance of GPT-3.5 with the established benchmark for multiple datasets and they also examined the performance of the models from the manually extracted google maps dataset. Their study effectively showed that the large language models are really effective in sentiment analysis and they do not require the data pre-processing unlike traditional models. 


A study [15] employed GPT-4o via ChatGPT for aspect based sentiment analysis to find the insghts from reviews. They benchmarked three different approaches for hote review dataset, first one is a fuzzy logic based method, second is human analysis and ChatGPT based analysis. They found that the ChatGPT is effective in the analysis of the complex sentiments and automating the sentiment classification task. 

Another study [16] investigated the performance of zero-shot and few-shot learning for multimodal sentiment analysis where they employed label-introduced chain-of-thought (CoT) generation, then fine-tuning using CoT. 

Transformer Based ABSA & Customer Complaint Analysis

the author [4] in this study proposed DL method enhancing a framework of the multi-critera decision making  (MCDM) in complaint prioritization. The author efficienlty analyzed the customer satisfaction by analyzing multiple aspects from the reviews and it effieciently shows the way to reduced the customer churn. They utilized a BERT-based model, BETO and achieved 92% accuracy. 




In order to focus on multiple issues from a multilingual dataset, the author [5] examines several issues like sentiment, emotion and severity from the negative reviews. They could effectively showed how the emotional and severity considerations helped in complaint handling. They proposed a deep learning based hierarchical attention model which is capaple of processing complaints at word and sentence levels. Their proposed model outperformed the existing benchmark models and achieved very good accuarcy. However, the study lacks how other study on multilingual text classification performs on their proposed model.

Due to the new trend in explaining the behind the scene of the prediction of ML model, this study [6] tried an explainable AI technique. They introduced a deep learning based system that monitors the complaint utilizing the XAI. Their technique includes extracting the service related features from the complaints and then anallyzing the sentiment by integrating the BERT based model. They disclosed a continuous complaint monitoring system utilizing staged p-chart for seasonal industries and addressed a few limitations in the traditional NLP techniques. 



In an effort [7] to classify the topic from the short text complaints, the study[7] explored Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) technique in combination with the BERT embeddings. The author utilized the indoneasian customer complaints dataset and found 3 complaint topics from the dataset. The study suggested that the enhancing the topic coherence and silhouette scores of the LDA along with the BERT-based models can help the e-commerce business classify the complaints from large volume of text in unsupervised way. 


Some e-commerce are also collecting the user feedback in audio and video forms. Specailly some e-commerce makes phone calls to customer and get their feedback on their recent purchase. This type of audio data is also helpful as this may contain varied range of user emotions that can actaully predict whether a customre is happy or not on his/her purchase. A similar type of research endavor [8] has made and the introduced a multimodal feedback system using NLP. They silently collected the feedback data from the customer in shopping malls. Their proposed model extracted the audio feedback to analyze the customer sentiments like complaints and helped to reduce the communcation barriers.  


Another study [10] for indoneasian e-commerce customer review classification investigated the topic modeling utilizing the LDA and BERTopic to find the complaint’s topics from the customer reviews. But they found these inefficient as the accuracy of these models were found to be not good, they therefore manually labeled the dataset and developed PhoBERT embeddings in combination with the logistic regression. Their study conducted on 17002 customer reviews from Shopee and they categorized them into five major categories like product quality, price, shipping, customer service and packaging. Their employed technique achieved an accuracy of 0.96%. The result doesn’t show what happens for long reviews that may consist of several issues or complaints at a time, hence suggesting a requirement of multi label dataset instead of the multiclass.  



Another study [12] scrapped data from various Chinese e-commerce sites and they used N-gram modeling of the sentiment and found that the ELECTRA yielded the highest accuracy of 98.09% and an F1-score of 97.11%. The author also translated their dataset by google translate API and run several models to show the effectiveness of the model in english as well. 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


ML/DL based Aspect Based Sentiment and Customer Complaint Analysis

A study [11] disclosed the possiblity of classifying customer complaints in railway sector and highlighted the social media role in customer feedback. They employed ML models like support vector machines and random forest to classify the tweets focusing on the urgency to confirm that the critical complaints is looking after first. The study suggested that the sentiment analysis is very important in identifying negative tweets requiring the immediate attention.  

A study [14] analyze the customer’s complaints behavior in a live streaming e-commerce using two-staged SEM-ANN. This study was crucial in identifying the key complaint factors, including the customer confusion, altruistic move and emotional venting. This study showed how the group complaints can effect on the consumer behavior and how can the e-commerce platform reduce the complaints. 











[1] LLMs for product classification in e-commerce: A zero-shot comparative study of GPT and claude models
[2] Think Before You Classify: The Rise of Reasoning Large Language Models for Consumer Complaint Detection and Classification
[3] https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/shashwatwork/consume-complaints-dataset-fo-nlp
[4] Analytics-Driven Complaint Prioritisation via Deep Learning and Multicriteria Decision-Making
[5] Navigating the Indian Code-Mixed Terrain: Multitasking Analysis of Complaints, Sentiment, Emotion, and Severity
[6] Deep-Learning-Based Customer Complaints Monitoring System Using Online Review
[7] Enhancing Indonesian Customer Complaint Analysis: LDA Topic Modelling with BERT Embeddings.
 [9] Enhanced Customer Insights: Multimodal NLP Feedback System
[10] Topic classification of vietnamese product reviews in e-commerce using PhoBERT
[11] Automatic Classification of Railway Complaints Using Machine Learning. 
[12] Examining Customer Satisfaction Through Transformer-Based Sentiment Analysis for Improving Bilingual E-Commerce Experiences
[13] Sentiment Analysis Using Large Language Models: A Case Study of GPT-3.5
[14] Predicting the Determinants of Consumer Complaint Behavior in E-Commerce Live-Streaming: A Two-Staged SEM-ANN Approach.
[15] Large Language Models Powered Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis for Enhanced Customer Insights
[16] Chain of Thought Guided Few-Shot Fine-Tuning of LLMs for Multimodal Aspect-Based Sentiment Classification




